README.md, before:

# D-Mould, ROSE-AP

## Contents

- [Background](#background)
- [Installation](#Installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [License](#license)


## Background

D-Mould is a robotics-based solution that contributes to the continuous production of moulding machines with reduced downtime and a more reliable process resulting in decreased human risk factors and increased production output.

## Architecture

Experimental setup consists of **Pre-Existing hardware:**
* Injection moulding machine (IMM), 
* Linear robot, 
* Conveyor belt 

**and new hardware:**
* Cobot 1, 
* Cobot 2,
* Autonomous mobile robot (AMR),
* VLM. 878


<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="newHW.jpg">
  </p>
  <p align="center">New hardware</p>
</div>

Both Cobots are equipped with **computer vision system for parts detection**, AMR is equipped with laser scanners and 3D cameras.

We‘re exporting NGSI entities to **Orion Context Broker** running **OPC/UA IoT Agent**. Instance of **SQL (PostgreSQL) server** is used to store historical data. Context Broker and NGSI system entities are running on **local network**. Database with historical data is accessable on public address *dmouldramp.ddns.net* through port **5432**. The database is accessible on demand. 

The image below shows how **ROSE-AP** is integrated in the Factory and connected to **RAMP**.

<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="figure1.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">Architecture overview</p>
</div>


## Installation

Supported OS for this project is Windows 10 and Linux, however our main test environment was Windows 10 so we will include only instructions for this specific OS and we recommend using it for your testing purposes.

To run a project clone/download a git repository and follow instructions below.


### C# application

Open folder **x64** and start **D-MouldOpc.exe**. To run application you should have [.NET 5.0 installed](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/5.0) on computer.

Let the console application run in the background. The output will be similar as one on the picture below:

<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="opcConsoleApp.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">OPC console output</p>
</div>


### Docker 

To install Docker follow the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) and enable **WSL 2** during the installation, more [WSL information](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/wsl/).

*docker-compose.yml* file shows all the required information regarding ports and network configuration, as well as the environment variables for the containers that require them.

1. After installing, start the Docker Desktop program.

2. Run administrator version of PowerShell in folder **d-mould** and run these commands:

    2.1.  
    ```yaml
    wsl -d docker-desktop
    ```
    2.2.

    ```yaml
    sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
    ```
3. Run a second administrator version of PowerShell in the same folder **d-mould** and run these commands:

    3.1
    ```yaml
    docker compose up
    ```
    You should see a similar output as on image below.
<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="output.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">PowerShell Docker output</p>
</div>

Let Docker run in the shell and move to the next step.

### CrateDB

To test if everything works as it should open web browser and open the following URL:
[172.28.16.1:4200](http://172.28.16.1:4200), CrateDB dasboard should open.

<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="crateDb.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">CrateDB dashboard</p>
</div>

## Usage

Tables in dashboard are showing data from machines, further processing/querrying can be done following instructions on CrateDB website, e.g. [Selecting data](https://crate.io/docs/crate/reference/en/5.1/general/dql/selects.html), etc,.
<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="crateDbTables.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">Data</p>
</div>

Data is also visualised in our RAMP dashboard
<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="dashboard.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">RAMP dasboard</p>
</div>



## License

The project is licensed under the [Apache-2](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) license.

Commit message:

README.md update
Video guide link added

README.md, after:

# D-Mould, ROSE-AP

## Contents

- [Background](#background)
- [Installation](#Installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [License](#license)


## Background

D-Mould is a robotics-based solution that contributes to the continuous production of moulding machines with reduced downtime and a more reliable process resulting in decreased human risk factors and increased production output.

## Architecture

Experimental setup consists of **Pre-Existing hardware:**
* Injection moulding machine (IMM), 
* Linear robot, 
* Conveyor belt 

**and new hardware:**
* Cobot 1, 
* Cobot 2,
* Autonomous mobile robot (AMR),
* VLM. 878


<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="newHW.jpg">
  </p>
  <p align="center">New hardware</p>
</div>

Both Cobots are equipped with **computer vision system for parts detection**, AMR is equipped with laser scanners and 3D cameras.

We‘re exporting NGSI entities to **Orion Context Broker** running **OPC/UA IoT Agent**. Instance of **SQL (PostgreSQL) server** is used to store historical data. Context Broker and NGSI system entities are running on **local network**. Database with historical data is accessable on public address *dmouldramp.ddns.net* through port **5432**. The database is accessible on demand. 

The image below shows how **ROSE-AP** is integrated in the Factory and connected to **RAMP**.

<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="figure1.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">Architecture overview</p>
</div>


## Installation

Follow our  [video step-by-step tutorial](https://youtu.be/zo8Bf4FP3qM) or use installation documentation below.

Supported OS for this project is Windows 10 and Linux, however our main test environment was Windows 10 so we will include only instructions for this specific OS and we recommend using it for your testing purposes.

To run a project clone/download a git repository and follow instructions below.


### C# application

Open folder **x64** and start **D-MouldOpc.exe**. To run application you should have [.NET 5.0 installed](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/5.0) on computer.

Let the console application run in the background. The output will be similar as one on the picture below:

<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="opcConsoleApp.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">OPC console output</p>
</div>


### Docker 

To install Docker follow the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) and enable **WSL 2** during the installation, more [WSL information](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/wsl/).

*docker-compose.yml* file shows all the required information regarding ports and network configuration, as well as the environment variables for the containers that require them.

1. After installing, start the Docker Desktop program.

2. Run administrator version of PowerShell in folder **d-mould** and run these commands:

    2.1.  
    ```yaml
    wsl -d docker-desktop
    ```
    2.2.

    ```yaml
    sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
    ```
3. Run a second administrator version of PowerShell in the same folder **d-mould** and run these commands:

    3.1
    ```yaml
    docker compose up
    ```
    You should see a similar output as on image below.
<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="output.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">PowerShell Docker output</p>
</div>

Let Docker run in the shell and move to the next step.

### CrateDB

To test if everything works as it should open web browser and open the following URL:
[172.28.16.1:4200](http://172.28.16.1:4200), CrateDB dasboard should open.

<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="crateDb.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">CrateDB dashboard</p>
</div>

## Usage

Tables in dashboard are showing data from machines, further processing/querrying can be done following instructions on CrateDB website, e.g. [Selecting data](https://crate.io/docs/crate/reference/en/5.1/general/dql/selects.html), etc,.
<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="crateDbTables.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">Data</p>
</div>

Data is also visualised in our RAMP dashboard
<div>
  <p align="center">
    <img src="dashboard.png">
  </p>
  <p align="center">RAMP dasboard</p>
</div>



## License

The project is licensed under the [Apache-2](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) license.
